Over the 3 weeks of the EPIC, I learned something that I had never really thought of before. whenever I had built projects in the past, I built them from the ground up, thus meaning each time I went to tackle a project, I essentially had a clean slate to work off.
This IDaVIE project was in complete diametric contrast to this. We were essentially given a project that had been running for 8 years and told we had to somewhat rescue it in a way.
This showed me the constraints that technical debt can put on a team. Though we had a team of 28 software engineers, we had to move quite slowly in order to ensure that each of our individual concerns lined up.
Firstly, to go over my contributions to the team, I really touched upon all areas to ensure that the project got over the line. On the first day, Mark and I got the GUI running. This did take some time to get around all the dependency errors. We then had a meeting on the Tuesday, and I took on the role of Scrum Master for both team Alpha and Sub-team 6. I know as per the brief, that taking on a large role should put you out of the sub-team, but we needed someone to steer the ship for the sub-team, even if only at a reduced capacity. 
As Scrum Master of Team Alpha, I conducted the daily scrum of scrums. I made sure that each team was aligning with the brief, and that there were no blockers at play. I created a kanban board for the whole of team Alpha so everyone stayed on track.
I then created a kanban for the sub-team 6. I made sure that the work stretched us, but was also attainable. I set the goals in a way that we could have all the work done by the end of week 2, building in early week 3 as contingency. I monitored work, cleared blockers that arose, and made sure everyone was hitting their daily goals.
The most important role though from the first week was conducting the team wide sprint review and retro, and conducting the sprint retro for the sub team. In the sprint review, I encouraged a representative from each team to come up and speak about what they had completed that week. This fostered an inclusive environment, as well as reinforced understanding from each of the teams. Being able to explain the work you have done is extremely important in my eyes, as it conveys a higher level of understanding.
The sprint retro allowed us time to reflect on what we had done correctly, and what we had done poorly. It was clear we could improve our communication, as well as be more transparent with our sub-team progress.  One thing I pointed out was that we could share our wins, as this would motivate everyone in the team.
A sprint retro was conducted for our sub-team as well. Here, we reflected on how we performed as a unit. We realised we may have stepped on each other’s toes a bit and muddied the waters. We agreed that for the following week that we would ensure everyone stayed in their own lane.
For week 2, I became sub-team tech lead. This is where the bulk of my coding work was done. I took responsibility for the file tab refactoring proposal. The file tab was originally part of a monobehaviour god-class called canvassdesktop.cs, and it was my task to break it down so it adhered to the adr, the mvvm architecture, and was testable. I broke the file tab up into skeleton and adapter folders. I made sure that the skeleton folder consisted of pure C#, so it could be tested with unit tests. Creating the skeleton folder with none of its files being dependent on Unity was a big task, but it ensured that we adhered to the mvvm architecture that we chose. 
As tech-lead, I also contributed to the adr log. I had particular interest in adr-09, the mvvm split, but also adr-02, the anti-corruption layer.
Metrics and principles were of utmost importance as this was the real indicator of whether we were making the correct moves. Beforehand, the god class had 1,899 lines of code, a score of 63 WMC (should be <=20 for the domain, and <=40 for the adapters), a 30 CBO (should be <=14 for domain and <= 25 for orchestrators), and a LCOM of .955 (should be below 50%). We also had principles like SOLID and GRASP to adhere to, as well as ISO 25010 maintainability standards.
With all this in mind, I ensured that our refactors fit within these constraints as well as possible. There is a lot very simple methods like setters and getters that don’t have overlap between the fields, the methods don’t work together but they don’t need to. This is why LCOM stayed high, and it was just due to the mvvm style. This was the main trade off. All other metrics, like LOC, WMC, and CBO. The refactors also compiled as a .NET project, 
Secondly, to go over what I learned, there are a myriad of things to touch on. The challenges of working with a legacy codebase is definitely one of them. Working in a massive group and the challenges that come with it is definitely another. I think the biggest learning that came was cross-team communication. Information retrieval is harder than I originally thought. I thought I could just go up to a sub-team, ask questions, get answers, and that is that. I never considered things like, what information do I actually want? What way to phrase questions so they best understand what I am looking for? When should I approach a specific sub-team? Who in that sub-team has this knowledge? What should I do if they don’t have all the information? There was such a list of factors that I hadn’t previously considered.
Another software-engineering learning was down to how important documentation is. It really comes down to the Blaise Pascal quote of “If I had more time, I would have written a shorter letter”. Concise and to the point documentation is much more important that documentation that is overly long, has flowery language, and is vague and abstract. Directness and to the point is key. Ensuring that none of our documentation was excessively long the main thing at play.
Finally, I used AI all throughout this project. AI was a massive contributor to both enhancing my understanding, as well as shaping how we went about our work. I used AI to help dissect the codebase, understand the nuances with the code, document the current state of the system, analyse the brief and the refactoring that needed to be carried out, create proposals of what we were going to create, carry out the refactoring work, create documentation around this work, carry out cross-examination of before and after, create tests to test the software, help make sure all the code and tests compiled, and then to carry out checks and reviews of the work we outputted. We ensured AI was part of the whole process, as it was a massive accelerator.
AI helped me extensively. It was able to critically analyse scenarios and pick out bugs hidden deep in the code. But saying this, it wasn’t without its misses. It would create bloated documentation, and also it would hallucinate at times. Though hallucinations were rare, it ensured that we had to review our work instead of trusting it blindly. 
In conclusion, we as a sub-team were able to deliver the work set out for us in the brief. I held the roles of both team and sub-team scrum master, as well as sub-team tech lead. I mainly focused on the file tab refactoring but also helped with architecture, design, and requirements. I used AI throughout, but reviewed its work to ensure there were no hallucinations.

